---
title: "Polished.Rocks"
date: 2024-06-05
categories: [Projects, Web Apps]
tags: [simulation, funny, rock_polishing, open_source, bachelor_party, code_challenge]
description: "A toy rock polishing app built in 2 days with friends."
image:
  path: /assets/img/posts/polished.rocks.png
  alt: The logo for polished.rocks, modeled after a rock tumblr.
---

## Abstract

A toy rock-polishing simulator built with a couple of friends in about two days.

## Role

I was the project lead, architect, and lead developer. [Go be amused](https://polished.rocks/) and [check out the source code](https://github.com/Kelketek/polished.rocks).

## Background

Years ago, when I was reading up on various top level domains that had been authorized, I came across the .rocks TLD. I knew that '.rocks' was really intended for something like 'so-and-so.rocks' for tribute sites to a concept or company. But it occurred to me that it would be funny to see a literal usage-- about stones.

I checked to see if polished.rocks was open, and, indeed, it was. I snagged it, and imagined one day putting a sort of art installation on it-- a virtual rock polisher. For years I sat on the domain, knowing I'd probably get around to it at some point.

And then I met the love of my life. We got engaged, and to celebrate, we decided to have a bachelor party. Now I don't really get a lot out of strip clubs, but I do enjoy coding on fun projects, and I realized we could have a hackathon to put this together.

We printed shirts, got company ID badges and swag, and spent two days getting drunk, coding, and eating great food while pretending to be a silicon valley startup building 'the next great app'. By the time we were finished, we had a working rock polisher webapp that runs entirely in the frontend, saves your progress and lets you share the polished rocks with other people.

Perhaps most amusingly, it runs in real time. So it takes weeks to actually finish polishing your rocks. I don't think we'll get too many investors, but that's OK. :)

Don't have time to wait? There's a cheat code to speed things up in the code, somewhere...
